The Bluetooth Audio Transmitter is an input and output audio device and allows users to play music with a 3.5 mm jack. The user is able to connect their device to the transmitter and select a song of their choice and it will output in a connected speaker via Bluetooth connection. The intended applications for this project is to connect any form of sound through a 3.5mm jack and be able to hear the corresponding real time audio.

The BAT’s key features are a volume control dial to adjust volume and incorporates a speaker within the device. Moreover, it connects with any device that has a 3.5mm jack. Many Bluetooth Audio Transmitters do not have a connected speaker and do not connect with all devices that lack Bluetooth functionality. This sets the BAT apart from the rest of devices that are similar. The overall goal for this device is for an accurate, clear, audio output so that the user is able to use this device to its fullest potential. The main objective as well is to create a device able to be compatible with most devices in the world regardless of what type of audio device the user is using for audio connection. 

This project is significant in today’s world because it is able to do real time signal processing which leads to less delays in sound and creating an efficient sound. Furthermore,  many devices have delay in sound, which can cause inaccuracy and frustrations with devices. This device uses reliably and cost effective effective components that allows this device to be so accessible to many individuals. Our system is cost effective, user friendly, and has very minimal latency.

The design itself is able to carry out all functions with just an audio device from the user. Furthermore, the system is encasulated in a wooden frame for an aesthetically pleasing device case. The wooden frame’s purpose is so it can encompass the whole device and also protect it from damage. The wooden frame will allow the device to be portable and still weigh less than a pound. The goal is to allow this device to be durable and portable. The user will only have to input their device to the 3.5 mm jack and play their audio. This allows for the device to be used by any user regardless of prior knowledge with this technology. 
    
Another component to the design is not only to have efficient sound quality, but to also make it affordable for the user. Speakers similar to this design in electronic stores are fairly costly and can be complicated to use. The simplistic design of the bluetooth audio transmitter has allowed for the device to be cost effective, totaling to less than twenty dollars. With a simplistic reliable design and sound, users are guaranteed a reliable device with a low risk of failure. When comparing the BAT to audio devices that are more expensive, the more expensive device can lead to complications with sound and become a high investment with a high risk of functionality.
